# CDSS
Personalisable Clinical Decison Support System for Neurological Diseases



Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's impact millions of people worldwide. Early diagnosis has proven to greatly increase the chances of slowing the diseases’ progression, with significant positive impact on the quality of life of the patient. Correct diagnosis often relies on the analysis of large amounts of patient data, and thus lends itself well to support from machine learning algorithms, which are able to learn from past diagnosis and see clearly through the complex interactions of a patient’s symptoms. Unfortunately, many contemporary machine learning techniques fail to reveal details about how they reach their conclusions, a property considered fundamental when providing a diagnosis.

This work introduces a personalisable rule-based machine learning algorithm which clearly describes how it reaches a decision. The whole algorithm is implemented in Python and trained to predict whether patients are likely to suffer from Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease. The algorithm performs by extracting a rule set from a random forest, which is then minimises in several steps. Three main factors are taken into account during the reduction process: (1) the performance of individual rules, (2) the rules’ transparency, and (3) the personal preferences of the user. The reduction leads to a new, smaller set of rules, with predictive performance comparable to the original set, but which is much easier to comprehend.

By examining the final rule set, a user can see the roles played by different features in the decision-making process, enabling new insight into the diseases and their detection. The personalisable interface allows the doctor to easily adapt the algorithm to their personal needs, thus enhancing both their trust in the system and the utility gained from it. A clear understanding of the process behind a diagnosis is crucial for both doctor and patient, and it is hoped that systems like this one will become increasingly prevalent as we continue to improve the state-of-the art in predictive medicine.
